Research Participant Consent Form

Project Title: Information Dissemination in Electronic Financial Markets

Institution: Royal Holloway, University of London -- Department of
Economics

Researchers: Prof. Alessio Sancetta, Prof. Francesco Feri, Prof. Michael
Naef, Dr. Wenbin Wei, Dr. Mariol Jonuzaj

Funding Body: The Leverhulme Trust

**Introduction**

Royal Holloway, University of London supports the practise of protecting
human participants in research. This form provides you with important
information about taking part in this study. Your participation in this
study is entirely voluntary, and you have the right to withdraw at any
time without penalty or negative consequences. If you choose to
withdraw, any data collected from you will be deleted and not included
in the final analysis.

**Summary**

The purpose of this study is to investigate the interaction between
human and machines (AI agents) in electronic financial markets. In this
study, we will ask you to participate in various experimental financial
markets where you will be able to make decisions regarding buying or
selling a virtual financial asset (not a real asset). This study will
take approximately 30 minutes to complete. Taking part in this study is
a great opportunity to learn how electronic financial markets operate,
and you will also have the chance to earn financial profits depending on
your performance.

**Ethical Approval**

This study has received ethics approval from Royal Holloway, University
of Lonon's Research Ethics Committee, with the approval ID of \[????\].

**Data collection**

During this study, we will collect data from you only related to your
buy or sell decision orders. At the end of the study, you will be asked
to complete a short survey about your overall experience with our
platform. Additionally, the Prolific platform will provide some basic
demographic characteristics such as age, gender and education. All data
will be anonymized and labelled using only your Unique Prolific ID.

**Data Protection**

This research commits to abide by the Data Protection Act (2018).

**General Data Protection Regulation Statement**

Important General Data Protection Regulation information (GDPR). Royal
Holloway, University of London is the sponsor for this study and is
based in the UK. We will be using information from you in order to
undertake this study and will act as the data controller for this study.
This means that we are responsible for looking after your information
and using it properly. Any data you provide during the completion of the
study will be stored securely on hosted on servers within the European
Economic Area'. Royal Holloway is designated as a public authority and
in accordance with the Royal Holloway and Bedford New College Act 1985
and the Statutes which govern the College, we conduct research for the
public benefit and in the public interest. Royal Holloway has put in
place appropriate technical and organisational security measures to
prevent your personal data from being accidentally lost, used or
accessed in any unauthorised way or altered or disclosed. Royal Holloway
has also put in place procedures to deal with any suspected personal
data security breach and will notify you and any applicable regulator of
a suspected breach where legally required to do so. To safeguard your
rights, we will use the minimum personally-identifiable information
possible (i.e., the email address you provide us). The lead researcher
will keep your contact details confidential and will use this
information only as required (i.e., to provide a summary of the study
results if requested and/or for the prize draw). The lead researcher
will keep information about you and data gathered from the study, the
duration of which will depend on the study. Certain individuals from
RHUL may look at your research records to check the accuracy of the
research study. If the study is published in a relevant peer-reviewed
journal, the anonymised data may be made available to third parties. The
people who analyse the information will not be able to identify you. You
can find out more about your rights under the GDPR and Data Protection
Act 2018 by visiting
[[https://www.royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/governance-and-strategy/data-protection/]{.underline}](https://www.royalholloway.ac.uk/about-us/more/governance-and-strategy/data-protection/)
and if you wish to exercise your rights, please contact
[[dataprotection@royalholloway.ac.uk]{.underline}](mailto:dataprotection@royalholloway.ac.uk)

**Compensation**

For your time and effort, you will receive compensation through the
Prolific platform payment. You will receive a participation fee of Â£5
GBP, and additional compensation will be provided based on your
performance. This is subject to completing the entire study and
submitting the completion code displayed at the end of the study to the
prolific platform.

**Contact information**

If you have any question, concerns, or feedback related to this study,
please feel free to contact us through the Prolific message box.

**Statement of consent**

I confirm that:

- I have read and understood the information provided in this consent
  form.

- I have had the opportunity to ask questions and have received
  satisfactory answers.

- I voluntarily agree to participate in the study "Information
  Dissemination in Electronic Financial Markets"

- I understand that I can withdraw from the study at any time without
  penalty or negative consequences.

> I consent to participate
>
> \[tick box\]

\[Next Button \]
